AI Chat Application

This project is a full stack AI powered chat application that allows users to interact with an intelligent assistant in real time. It includes a modern React frontend and a FastAPI backend integrated with an AI model. The application supports multiple chat sessions, persistent history, and a clean user interface similar to modern conversational platforms.

Project Overview

The application enables users to start a chat session, send messages, and receive AI generated responses. Each conversation is stored locally, allowing users to manage multiple chats. The frontend communicates with a deployed backend API to process and return responses.

Features

User login with name based session
Multiple chat sessions
Persistent chat history using local storage
Real time message streaming effect
Copy assistant responses
Responsive and clean user interface
Frontend deployed on Vercel
Backend deployed on Render

Technology Stack

Frontend
React
JavaScript
CSS

Backend
FastAPI
Python

Deployment
Vercel for frontend
Render for backend

Project Structure

frontend
contains React application and UI components

backend
contains FastAPI server and API endpoints

Installation and Setup

Clone the repository

git clone your repository link

Navigate to frontend

cd ai chat frontend

Install dependencies

npm install

Start development server

npm start

Navigate to backend

cd ai chat backend

Create virtual environment

python -m venv venv

Activate environment

venv scripts activate

Install dependencies

pip install -r requirements.txt

Run backend server

uvicorn main app reload

Environment Variables

Create a .env file in backend and add your API key

GROQ API KEY your key here

Deployment

Frontend is deployed using Vercel. Any changes pushed to the main branch trigger automatic deployment.

Backend is deployed using Render. Ensure the API endpoint URL is correctly configured in the frontend.

Usage

Open the deployed frontend link
Enter your name to start
Create or switch chats
Send messages and receive responses

Future Improvements

Add authentication with email and password
Add database for permanent chat storage
Improve UI to match advanced chat platforms
Add file upload and advanced prompts
Add dark and light mode

Author

Pujitha Bandla
